---
layout: post
title: Privacy
date: '2021-09-05 01:03:54'
---

This privacy policy ("policy") will help you understand how Anima's Stuff ("us", "we", "our") uses and protects the data you provide to us when you visit and use animafps.xyz ("website", "service").

We reserve the right to change this policy at any given time, of which you will be promptly updated. If you want to make sure that you are up to date with the latest changes, we advise you to frequently visit this page.

**What User Data We Collect**

When you visit the website, we may collect the following data:

- Your contact information and email address.
- Non-identifiable information(location[country], browser, os, device type)
- Data profile regarding your online behaviour on our website

**Why We Collect Your Data**

We are collecting your data for several reasons:

- To better understand your needs.
- To improve our services and products.
- To send you promotional/newsletter emails containing the information we think you will find interesting.

**Safeguarding and Securing the Data**

We are committed to securing your data and keeping it confidential. We have done all in our power to prevent data theft, unauthorized access, and disclosure by implementing the latest technologies and software, which help us safeguard all the information we collect online. As well as we do not collect any personally identifiable information and anonymizes all data collected.

**Our Cookie Policy**

Anima's Stuff does not use any cookies further from the ones used to login use of session storage for analytics caching to speed up your browsing experience

**Links to Other Websites**

Our website contains links that lead to other websites. If you click on these links we are not held responsible for your data and privacy protection. Visiting those websites is not governed by this privacy policy agreement. Make sure to read the privacy policy documentation of the website you go to from our website.

Anima's Stuff will not lease, sell or distribute your personal information to any third parties. We might do so if the law forces us. Your personal information will be used when we need to send you promotional materials or material you have subscribed to if you agree to this privacy policy.

If you want to see the data with examples of what this website collects and for me to be transparent, you can view all of it here: [https://umami.animafps.xyz/share/KtJwqkta/animafps.xyz](https://umami.animafps.xyz/share/KtJwqkta/animafps.xyz)

